---
author: No Content Found
comments: true
date: 2012-04-26 05:51:24+00:00
layout: post
link: /writing/90
slug: '90'
title: Finding a Boat Part 2
wordpress_id: 152
---

Now that I have my boater's safety card it's time to move on to steps 1-5 of getting a boat.
**Step 1: Learn how to sail**




I've decided that this step doesn't necessarily have to come first. I can live on a boat and learn how to sail it simultaneously. A user poll suggests that if I do this I have only a 50% of crashing and sinking my boat within the first week of owning it.




**Step 2: Hire a boat surveyor**




I'm working on this right now. It looks like the average cost for a marine survey is $350. I plan to look at some boats on my own first just to rule a few out and when I find one that I like, I will come back with the surveyor.




**Step 3: Take boat surveyor to look at boats**




I have a couple of boats lined up to look at this weekend. So far I know that I want something 30ish feet that is comfortable to live aboard yet easy for one person to sail. It should have as little outside wood as possible so that I won't have to be constantly staining it and a propane stove.




**Step 3.5: Apply and Qualify for a Boat Loan**




This doesn't seem too difficult, although boat loans are harder to get and have higher interest rate than other loans because there is a greater risk of a boat buyer disappearing with their new boat than there is for, say, a homeowner disappearing with their new home.




****Step 4: Find Moorage****




This is one of the most complicated steps. I will probably write a more detailed post about this when I actually know what I'm talking about.




******Step 5: Buy a Boat**




Self-explanatory. As they say, the second happiest day of a boat owner's life is when she buys a boat. The happiest day is when she sells it. At least I'll have something to look forward to.




**
**
