---
author: No Content Found
comments: true
date: 2012-05-04 08:27:53+00:00
layout: post
link: /writing/109
slug: '109'
title: Sounders vs Galaxy
wordpress_id: 53
---

I'm not going to lie - I went to see Seattle Sounders vs LA Galaxy Wednesday night with the hope of seeing David Beckham. Unfortunately, he was injured and didn't even bother to show up. Fortunately, the Sounders won.
I learned most of my Spanish _palabrotas_ by going to futból games. The Sounders game was my first US pro soccer game and I had to learn a whole new set of chants.




First of all, there was the original "Soouuuunnndderrrrss!" shouted in chorus from one side of the stadium to the other. Then there was the creative chant "FIGHT....and WIN!" The people behind us made up their own original chant: "We're better than you!"




We weren't in the crazies section, so we missed a lot of good chants that I probably shouldn't repeat here anyway.




I realized halfway through that the Sounder's Game that the Sounders were my team. I was screaming at them to "step on the ball!" or "kick it in!"  or "Just kick it in, #@% it!" We only won by two. Apparently if we had won by three goals, everybody could have gotten a free haircut, so I had a lot of incentive to encourage the Sounders to win. As it was, since we won we still got free appetizers at Hard Rock Café. We also got glowsticks, and I accidentally cracked mine and got glowstick oil all over myself. I smeared it onto my jeans and my face on the way to the Hard Rock Café. Unfortunately when we walked in they told us that they were closing early. I complemented the waiter on his flair and showed him my glowing jeans, but he wasn't impressed and shoed us out. We ended up in The Alibi Room, Pike Place's worst kept secret bar. Their vegan pizza is scrumptious.




I don't know how it happened. I've been here for three weeks and I'm already saying "we" when I talk about the Sounders. I must already consider myself to be a Seattleite.
